---
title: Most exciting features in V3 releases
description: A brief roadmap about DFlex V3 and above.
---

Unlike traditional Drag and Drop transformers. DFlex project has promised a more
realistic way of DOM transformation effect where elements are not always
positioned in one dimension represented in one array vertically or horizontally.
But to support two dimensions there are multiple steps that had to be done, one
of them is redefining the threshold and adding more accurate position detectors.

### The threshold problem

The first release of the threshold was depending on two-point that determines
the dragged position. One for the top(Y) position and the other for the left(X)
position. The definition worked great but had some limitations when it’s
expanded for layout and scroll containers. One of the limitations was the
ability to add indicators for each direction. Depending on two points was
accurate but also hard to develop and debug, especially when scaling to detect
out of the parent container. There was something broken with it, it was not
standard. The abstract object has four directions. Its threshold and its parent
threshold should be defined with four indication flags. That was not the only
flaw, there was another one, the question of multiple layouts each one should
have its own indicator. If the dragged is out, does it mean it’s out from its
position? Or its parent position? And can we know which direction the dragged
left? To answer these questions DFlex has to transform to a new API with a brand
new threshold design.

The new release has a strict definition of each movement and a special threshold
store connected to each layout. Simply if there’s `isOut: true` it’s now
possible to tell from what and in which direction.

### The mouse direction problem

The Drag movement has some enhancement mechanism or the common sense of any
movement. While it is fluid, if it has an effect then it should be done in
order. To detect, let’s say leaving outside the container DFlex depends on the
internal index of each element and mouse direction that tells where the dragged
is heading. It’s good, but also buggy.

Depending on the mouse movement is tricky. You can tell that the mouse is moving
up but really how you can turn the visual detection into a program. What if
there’s a sudden change in the movement? What is the acceptable margin of error?
And what’s the cost of any potential enhancements? The answer is clear, the
solution should not be related to the mouse movement at all.

That can be done with the new threshold. If the indicators are correct, then
there’s no need to depend on the movement with all the fatigue it has. Left
from the top, means we know accurately where the mouse is heading. Depending on
the position is a better solution for the interactive movement.

### Closing Thoughts

One of the changes that are related to V3 is releasing under MIT License. The
previous GPL License seemed discouraging and confusing to a lot of people. All
these changes and new releases will focus on more robust transformation mainly
targeting grid containers. Or, not all drag and drop is a simple todo list.
